docs: add today-vs-proposal decision-flow diagrams to node-repair RFC (#21)
DerekFrank/karpenter-testing-fork: designs/making-node-repair-voluntary.md

The common thread: users reach for a *configurable* breaker, but their rationale keeps describing a *paced budget* — bounded rate, self-clearing, per-scope. That is not a better threshold; it is a different mechanism.

### The disruption controls the operator already set are inert

> Repair consults exactly two controls today: the per-condition `TolerationDuration` (the detection gate — how long a condition must persist before the node is eligible) and the 20% breaker (the sole backpressure). Everything else the operator configured to govern *disruption* is bypassed, because repair deletes the NodeClaim directly instead of going through the disruption path: the node's `PodDisruptionBudget`, its `terminationGracePeriod`, and any `do-not-disrupt` intent are all ignored, and forceful termination evicts the pods before it even attempts to terminate the instance. Drawn as a decision flow — the two live controls in colour, every bypassed one grey:

Author: ```suggestion
Repair consults exactly two controls today: the per-condition `TolerationDuration` (how long a condition must persist before the node is eligible) and the 20% breaker (the sole backpressure). Both of these are hard coded and cannot be controlled by the operator. Everything else the operator configured to govern *disruption* is bypassed, because repair deletes the NodeClaim directly instead of going through the disruption path: the node's `PodDisruptionBudget`, its `terminationGracePeriod`, and any `do-not-disrupt` intent are all ignored, and forceful termination evicts the pods before it even attempts to terminate the instance. Drawn as a decision flow — the two live controls in colour, every bypassed one grey:
```

Author: Applied the suggestion verbatim (added the hard-coded note, dropped the parenthetical). Pushed in 31e71c00.

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    classDef start fill:#1e3a8a,color:#fff;
    classDef live fill:#1e3a8a,color:#fff;
    classDef pass fill:#374151,color:#fff;
    classDef act fill:#7f1d1d,color:#fff,font-weight:bold;
    classDef bad fill:#7f1d1d,color:#fff;

    START["Node reports unhealthy condition"]:::start
    START --> TOL{"past TolerationDuration?<br/>— consulted (detection gate)"}:::live
    TOL -->|no| WAIT["Not yet eligible — requeue"]:::pass
    TOL -->|yes| VETO["do-not-disrupt<br/>— IGNORED by repair"]:::pass
    VETO --> BRK{"20% unhealthy breaker<br/>— the only backpressure"}:::act
    BRK -->|"at or over 20%"| FZ["FREEZE all repair cluster-wide,<br/>latched until a human intervenes"]:::bad
    BRK -->|"under 20%"| HR["headroom — IGNORED<br/>(always delete-first, no pre-spin)"]:::pass
    HR --> PDB["PDB — IGNORED<br/>(drain grace clamped to now)"]:::pass
    PDB --> TGP["terminationGracePeriod — IGNORED<br/>(overridden to now)"]:::pass
    TGP --> DRAIN["Force-evict all pods now<br/>(drain runs first; grace clamped to now)"]:::bad
    DRAIN --> DEL["Terminate the instance<br/>(stampede on recovery; churn on false positives)"]:::bad
```

> Toleration and the breaker survive unchanged in the proposal (toleration stays the detection gate; the breaker is replaced by the budget). The rest of this RFC turns each of the grey boxes into a control that actually steers repair.

Author: remove, we don't need to explain what the rfc does this is just background still

Author: Removed — kept the section pure background, no forward-reference to what the RFC does. 31e71c00.

    START["Node reports unhealthy condition"]:::start
    START --> TOL{"past TolerationDuration?<br/>(detection gate, unchanged)"}:::cfg
    TOL -->|no| WAIT0["Not yet eligible — requeue"]:::hold
    TOL -->|yes| VETO{"repair veto set?"}:::cfg
    VETO -->|set| SKIP["Skip — operator veto honored"]:::act
    VETO -->|unset| BUD{"within repair budget<br/>+ ordering?"}:::cfg
    BUD -->|"at cap"| WAIT["Wait — paced, real fault ranked first"]:::hold
    WAIT --> BUD
    BUD -->|"within"| DECLINE{"decline: repairing<br/>won't help?"}:::future
    DECLINE -->|"yes (future)"| WAIT
    DECLINE -->|"proceed (no such rule yet)"| PS["pre-spin replacement<br/>(replace-then-terminate, like all voluntary disruption)"]:::act
    PS --> GATE{"replacement boots healthy?"}:::cfg
    GATE -->|no| HOLD["Hold original + pool backoff"]:::hold
    GATE -->|yes| PDB{"PDB present?"}:::cfg
    PDB -->|yes| DR1["drain, bounded by policy TGP,<br/>honoring the PDB"]:::act
    PDB -->|no| DR2["drain, bounded by policy TGP,<br/>no workload floor"]:::act
    DR1 --> TERM["Terminate original"]:::act
    DR2 --> TERM
```

> Solid nodes are the behavior this RFC establishes: the four changes (veto, budget + ordering, policy-bounded drain) plus the pre-spin / health-gate flow that repair inherits simply by *being* a voluntary disruption. The one **dashed** node, proactive declining, is a beyond-graduation follow-up (see [Scope](#scope-and-follow-ups)). Two things omitted to keep the picture on the common path: the **no-headroom delete-first fallback** (for fleets that can't pre-spin — reserved/ODCR, static at `limits`) is the companion replacement-strategies RFC ([#2906](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/karpenter/pull/2906)); and the solid path does not depend on the operator having set a PDB — the PDB enters only when a node is actually drained, where it bounds workload disruption. Without one, repair still gets pacing, ordering, the veto, and a bounded drain.

Author: I dont' think we need this paragraph

Author: Removed the paragraph. Note this also drops the only inline legend for the dashed 'decline' node and the #2906 scoping — Scope still covers #2906, but the diagram no longer says what dashed means. Happy to add a one-line legend if you want it. 31e71c00.
